# Power Language

This project is building a simple programming language. I'm doing it for three reasons:

1. To learn how programming languages are implemented (at a basic level)
2. To have a tool that will perform linear algebra, with a simple and fast notation.
3. To experiment with Ruby 3 (specifically with the new pattern matching functionality that I'm very excited about)
	a. This was a battle. The Lexer and Parser use a fairly OO approach. The interpreter uses a much more functional programming approach to make use of the pattern matching. Merging these styles was a mistake. I made it work, but phew. If I did it again, I'd use OO and double dispatch to get everything working properly.

## Next Steps

	1. Build the interpreter. At least to the point of matrix multiplication.
		- matrices
		- if then else
		- lambdas > closures
		- calls
		- returns
	2. Create some write ups on:
		- How the language works
		- How the lexer/parser/interpreter work (independently and together). AST is generated by parser, interpreter uses methods created for the nodes.
	3. Create a semi-interactable tool. Maybe just able to pipe in files (and pipe out result). Maybe a proper REPL.

## Eventual Refactor

	- Change the syntax to fix the whole 'matrices care about new lines, but nothing else does' oddity.
	- Change terms to Fractions, and Create FractionSums. Add exponents to both. (should allow for fully recursive terms). 
	- Is there a way to allow users to create / change operations? Maybe custom operations always have a set priority, and you can use tuples to get around it.

## Resources 

Implementing a programming language in JS: [lisperator.net/pltut](http://lisperator.net/pltut)
